Okay,
guys,
welcome back.
We're gonna have a look at our first type of loop,
which is called a do loop.
So I'm just gonna type a new cell phone.
Call it loop.
Court liver can't have spaces,
do Lou and hit.
Enter on and subs are automatically in there.
Now.
The first thing that we need to do good practice Tell VB a where we're going to start.
We want to begin in range a one dot selling So they go.
We know what always going to be starting in the same thing.
So select start off range they go.
That's a nicely remnant piece of code,
so we'll always know what that does.
Now whenever you write a loop,
just as with logical tests in which we're going to come onto shortly,
you should always start your loop on a do loop begins with do hit,
enter a few times and then close your loop.
It's much easier to do that way,
and it's a good practice because if you start right,
do and then you end up writing 300 lines of code.
You may forget to close the loop and then when you come back to it's going to be difficult
to remember where you close the loop.
So when every type of loop of any kind type the name of the loop,
his hands for a few times closed the loop and that is the structure of this co just here.
So do enter a few times.
Loop.
Andi,
let's just tell it to do something for now.
So active cell dot offset 0.1 Open brackets one moved down one road.
No columns don't select.
So all this is going to do is loop around and move down one cell each time.
So I'm just gonna press f eight and you can see in the left hand window in Excel that we're
moving down one cell each time.
I'm just gonna keep my finger on their fate there.
Andi,
we're going to continue.
Continue,
Continue.
Are now.
You can probably start to see the problem with a do loop that a do loop will execute
forever when we just press,
stop there and execute will do forever until it reaches line 1,048,576.
Which means it's looping of an awful lot of times when perhaps you don't want it toe loop
in infinitely.
So what we need to do is introduce a test to say,
When do I stop looping?
So what we're gonna do in here is we're gonna say while the active cell doesn't equal,
that's less than and greater than in computer speak.
While the active cell doesn't equal blank,
in fact,
just is good code In practice,
we don't need to type value because Thebes default value of an active cell is value.
But I'm gonna price type it in just for good practice.
So now our loop is going to say do while the active cell does not equal blank and then
moved on the cell.
So let's just step through that we can see that we're happily progressing through the code
there were down into the forties,
were down into the fifties sixties seventies eighties and was slow down here on the active
cell value.
If I hover over it,
we can see is 100.
We're going to loop.
We're going to go back up.
The actors sell value equals 100 moved down one cell loot back up.
The active self duck value equals empty and note notice what happens in the code here.
It's gonna skip this line a move immediately to end sub because we have satisfied this
criteria and now we're just gonna move to end sub Andi finish.
OK,
so that's one way of doing it.
Find loop until the active cell doesn't equal blank.
But we could say,
Let's give it a mathematical test.
We could say,
While the active cell is less than 36 or 38 let's say Okay,
so let's have a look about that code.
So we're going to select a one.
We're going to go down the wrong line.
10 20 We're getting down very,
very quickly.
25 26 27 28 29 30 33 35 Actor sell value.
We can hover over it.
So what the current value is so 35 is less than 38.
That's good loop.
It's No.
That's good.
Let's loop.
It's 37 let's loop!
And now the actor sell value is 38 which is not less than 38 so immediately.
We're going to go to end sub,
so if you use a do loop,
you must give it a condition to meet in orderto exit.
Otherwise it will loop through 1,048,000.
Whatever it is that the number of lines in excel Okay,
so that's a do loop.
Next,
we're gonna have look the four next loop,
which is probably about the oldest sleep you can get.
I'll see you in the next lecture.